Okay.
So we're going to get started and I'm just going to have the final project open here in case there's
something we need to reference.
And we're going to start basically top to bottom.
I want to do the whole hero image and nav bar first.
So we'll do the HTML for that and then we'll jump to the styling and then we'll move on and go section
by section.
So I'm going to open up vs code and I have all the images already in here and you can get these in the
section resources and you can see I have them all in categories.
So we have the blog images, the cases, the home images, the team and we have a fabric on PNG here
that that we're going to implement later.
We're actually going to convert it to an ISO file and use that as our fab icon.
So let's go ahead and create in the root here index HTML, which obviously is our home page, our main
landing page.
And then let's also we'll create the other HTML pages later.
Let's create the CSS folder and inside there will create a style CSS.
Now, like I said in the intro, we're going to be using a lot of utility classes like for buttons and
backgrounds and stuff like that, almost like a built in framework.
So we can just throw these classes in where we need them.
So I'm actually going to have two style sheets.
I'm going to create another one called Utilities, CSS, and classes that will reuse as utilities will
go in here for buttons, text, background, stuff like that.
So we'll have two CSS files.
Now let's create a boilerplate in our HTML.
So exclamation enter and let's say welcome to Edge Ledger for our title.
And then we want to link in both of our style sheets.
Now the, the utilities, CSS, we want to put first and then under that the main style CSS.
That way, if we have to overwrite any of the utility styling, we can do that in our style CSS.
Now we're also going to be using font.
Awesome.
So we want to excuse me, we want to grab that real quick.
I'm going to go to NJ.com and just search for font and grab this right here, click on the CSS version
and grab the link for the all dot mini CSS file.
So if we say copy link tag, copy that, we can close that up and then just paste that right in the
head and we should be all set for now as far as the head goes.
So for the body, we're going to have an HTML five header tag and I'm going to give this a class of
hero.
So this is basically the entire, you know, everything above the fold, the main image and also the
nav bar will be within the header.
So let's create a div with the class of nav bar.
Actually, we'll give this an ID too because we're going to need it for the little bit of JavaScript
that we add later.
I mean, we could use a class, but when, when I take elements from the DOM using JavaScript, I like
to use an ID.
So within here we want our logo.
So that's going to be an H one.
I'll give it a class of logo and we're going to have our font font awesome icon here for our logo.
So face and then let's do a dash book, dash open and then just a space and edge ledger.
Now I do want to have the the icon or the logo and the word edge.
I want those to be green, as you can see right here.
So we're going to use a utility class called Text Primary that will create later on.
So let's actually surround this in a span.
We definitely want to use a span because if we use a div, which is a block level element, the word
ledger is going to be put on the next line and we don't want that.
So the span, I'm going to give a class of text primary and that's our logo.
So under the H one, we're going to have a NAV with a UL and have our list items with links and these
are just going to go to areas on the page.
So if we do a hash home or a number sign home, that's going to go to an ID of home on the page.
So we'll say home.
And I actually want that to go to the very top.
So I'm going to give the body an ID of home and then we'll just go ahead and copy this down.
We want five links.
So after home we'll have a boat and we want that to go to the ID of a boat.
Then we'll have cases.
Underneath cases is going to be the blog section which will go to the ID blog and then we'll have the
contact.
So that's it for the nav bar.
Now, as far as the content in the header, like the, you know, the sky's the limit heading and all
that that's going to go under this nav bar div.
So we want to go under that and have a class of content and here we'll have our H one say the sky is
the limit and we'll do a paragraph here.
And let's say we provide we provide world class financial assistance.
And then underneath that, we're going to have a link that's formatted as a button.
So it'll be in a tag, but let's give it a class of BTN.
And this is just going to go to the about section and we'll say Read more.
Let's actually put an icon in here though.
So I'm going to put an eye tag with the class of face and then a Chevron.
So it's what is it?
Fe Dash.
Chevron dash.
Right.
So we'll just put that little icon in there and that should be it as far as the HTML so we can open
this up with live server.
So that's what it's going to look like now, which doesn't look too good.
So we're going to jump into the CSIS and to style CSIS, and we're going to start with just the base
styles like the the body, the, the links, stuff like that.
Basically global styles.
Now we are going to use the open sans font, so we want to go to fonts, google.com and let's search
for open sans, which is right here and I'm going to grab the light 300 so select style and then also
the regular 400.
And then over here we can click in bed and you can either grab the link and put it in your HTML or the
import, which is what I'm going to do when I take this import and copy that, and then we'll put that
in our stylesheet.
So let's add some base styles here.
So we want to add box sizing border box on everything so that the width doesn't, you know, padding
doesn't take up the width.
We want to just reset the padding and margins.
So we're going to set both of those to zero on everything.
And then for the body, let's add the font family, which is going to be open sans and sans serif.
And for the background, let's make that white by default and the color of the text will be dark gray,
almost black.
And then I like to usually do a line height of 1.5, 1.6 for the body and then for Uls.
I want to, I don't want any bullet points.
So we want to set the list style to none and on links.
So we'll just make the default color dark gray and then let's remove the underline with text decoration
none.
So this applies to all links and then h ones and h twos.
So large headings.
I want to make it a light font weight.
So we're going to set that to 300 and then I'm just going to lessen the line height for headings, large
headings, we'll do 1.2.
That way, if they go on to multiple lines, the words aren't too far apart vertically.
And then for paragraph, remember we took away all the margins.
So I'm going to add ten pixels on the top and bottom and then any images, I want to have a width of
100% of their container by default.
So those are the base styles.
Now we do want to do the nav bar, so we'll do that here.
But I want to add the text classes.
We have that text primary class to our utilities.
So let's just put a comment here and say text styles or text colors and we have text primary.
So that's just going to have a color.
It's going to be our green color, which is hexadecimal two eight, a745 is going to be that color and
then we'll have a text secondary as well, which will be a blue color.
So we'll set that to hexadecimal 0284d0
and that will be our secondary.
So now if we take a look here, you can see we have that green now for the nav bar we want.
Remember, the nav bar has two items in it.
It has the the H one and it has the UL.
So we want that we want to set that to a Flexbox because we want those to align in a row and we want
the UL to be way over here.
Now the UL itself will also be a Flexbox so that these list items can float horizontally as well.
So let's go to our style CSS and let's just put a comment here.
Say nav bar.
So the nav bar is like I said, it's going to be a Flexbox.
So we want to set the display property to flex and let's align everything since it's a row, a line
items does the cross axis which is going to be vertical.
So we want to align center.
And then as far as justify content which aligns on the main axis, we're going to set that to space
between because we want the H one to be on one side and the UL to be on the other.
So if I go ahead and save that now you can see the UL is way over here and the logo is over here because
we have space between for justify content.
Now as far as the background, we'll set the background color to let's do three, three, three and
then the color will be white and I am going to make it a little bit see through add some, it's going
to be a little translucent.
So we'll set opacity to 0.8.
You don't have to, but I think it gives it a nice effect.
We want the width to be 100.
Sent in.
The height is going to be 70 pixels, which is pretty common for a nav bar.
And we want to position this.
We want it to stick to the top.
So we're going to position this in a fixed position and from the top zero pixels.
So it will always be stuck to the top.
And then we want a little bit of padding on the sides so that everything so that the logo and the UL
aren't right up against the sides.
So we'll do 30 pixels on the right and left and that should do it for now.
So if I save that, that's what it's going to look like.
Now, the links over here you can see are still vertical.
We also can't see them because they're the same color as the background.
So let's fix that.
So first of all, let's say nav bar, any tags, we're going to colour those white and then we have
our UL and we want to display that as flex so that the list items align in a row.
And that's pretty much all we need for the UL now for the A tags we want, we want to space them out
because if we take a look, you can see they're all squished up against each other.
So let's add padding.
I'm going to set padding to.
Let's do ten pixels, top and bottom, 20 left and right and then also margin on the left and right,
five pixels.
And yeah, that should do it.
So if we take a look at that, that looks pretty good.
Now I do want to have a hover effect.
I'm going to add a border, a border bottom on hover.
So let's go right here and say nav bar, colon hover and we'll say border bottom.
And as far as the color, I'm going to use this same text, this primary color right here and put that
in.
Of course, we need the width or shall we to pixels and the style which will be solid.
And if we hover over these links, that's not working.
Oh I put nav bar hover.
It should be nav bar a hover.
And there we go.
All right, cool.
So I think that's pretty much it for the nav bar.
Oh, one thing I do want to do is bold the logo a little bit, make the font weight a little bigger.
So let's say nav bar and that H one has a class of logo and I'm just going to set the font weight from
300 to 400 and now it's a little more bold.
So in the next video, we're going to go ahead and do the hero image.
We're going to add the background.
We're actually going to use a pseudo selector called before because you can use after and before to
create an overlay because we don't want the bright image.
We want to have this dark overlay over it.
So we'll be doing that in the next video.